                                                                                                                                       2025-10-01



                                         Towards an AI-Augmented Textbook
                                         LearnLM Team, Google



                                         Textbooks are a cornerstone of education, but they have a fundamental limitation: they are a one-size-
                                         fits-all medium. Any new material or alternative representation requires arduous human effort, so
                                         that textbooks cannot be adapted in a scalable manner. We present an approach for transforming and
                                         augmenting textbooks using generative AI, adding layers of multiple representations and personalization
                                         while maintaining content integrity and quality. We refer to the system built with this approach as Learn
                                         Your Way. We report pedagogical evaluations of the different transformations and augmentations, and
                                         present the results of a a randomized control trial, highlighting the advantages of learning with Learn
arXiv:2509.13348v4 [cs.CY] 30 Sep 2025




                                         Your Way over regular textbook usage.


                                         Keywords: Personalized learning, generative education, content transformations


                                         1. Introduction
                                         Recent advances in generative Artificial Intelligence (Gen-AI) have the potential to revolutionize
                                         education, but this potential is yet to be realized in full. It requires a responsible, multidisciplinary
                                         approach to weave together learning science and cutting edge technology. In this work, we focus on
                                         a central aspect of the current learning journey: exploring textbook material. Traditionally, every
                                         school selects several textbooks that are meant for use by all learners. The textbooks, by definition,
                                         are inflexible and not adaptive, as it is impractical to manually create a version for every audience,
                                         and certainly not one that would adapt to individual user needs. Here we argue that in the age of
                                         Gen-AI, this notion of a flexible and personalized textbook is in fact within reach. Specifically, we
                                         show how textbooks can be transformed into a richer and more personalized form, while maintaining
                                         the integrity of the original content, and adding layers that promote effective learning.
                                             Our textbook augmentation approach takes as input a textbook segment or chapters and uses
                                         them as the basis for extensive generated content, practice and evaluation. Our approach rests on
                                         two key concepts that underlie the corresponding augmentations of the original content: multiple
                                         representations and personalization. We propose a two step AI generation scheme whereby the
                                         original text is first personalized, and then transformed into a range of presentation forms and
                                         assessment components. A key desiderata in this process is that content is adequately aligned with
                                         the source and curriculum, and that the presentation is engaging and pedagogically effective. We
                                         implement our approach in an experimental learning experience that we call Learn Your Way.
                                             We begin with the pedagogical observation that learning can be more effective when the experience
                                         is adapted to the characteristics and needs of the learner [see 1, 2, for a review of personalization
                                         approaches]. Learn Your Way is thus designed to first re-generate the original textbook content, based
                                         on specific learner attributes. In addition, Learn Your Way generates assessment opportunities for
                                         the learner which serve to create a signal about their progress, reflect personalized feedback to the
                                         learner, and influence subsequent steps.
                                             The value of multiple representations of content has been studied i